Another family of supervised learning
models that's related to linear
classification models is
the Naive Bayes family of classifiers,
which are based on simple probabilistic
models of how the data in each class might
have been generated.
Naive Bayes classifiers are called
naive because informally,
they make the simplifying assumption that
each feature of an instance is independent
of all the others, given the class.
In practice, of course,
this is not often the case,
features often are somewhat correlated.
For example,
in predicting whether a house is likely
to sell above the owner's asking price.
Some features, such as the are of the
interior rooms are likely to be correlated
with other features, such as the size of
the land that the house is built on or
the number of bedrooms.
And these features in turn might
be correlated with the location of
the property, and so on.
This naive simplifying assumption
means on the one hand,
that learning a Naive Bayes
classifier is very fast.
Because only simple per class
statistics need to be estimated for
each feature and applied for
each feature independently.
On the other hand, the penalty for
this efficiency is that the generalization
performance of Naive Bayes Classifiers
can often be a bit worse than other
more sophisticated methods, or
even linear models for classification.
Even so, especially for
high dimensional data sets,
Naive Bayes Classifiers can achieve
performance that's often competitive
to other more sophisticated methods, like
support vector machines, for some tasks.
There are three flavors of
Naive Bayes Classifier that are available
in scikit learn.
The Bernoulli Naive Bayes model uses
a set of binary occurrence features.
When classifying texts document for
example,
the Bernoulli Naive Bayes model is
quit handy because we could represent
the presence or the absence of the given
word in the text with the binary feature.
Of course this doesn't take into account
how often the word occurs in the text.
So the Multinomial Naive Bayes model
uses a set of count base features
each of which does account for how many
times a particular feature such as a word
is observed in training
example like a document.
In this lecture we won't have
time to cover the Bernoulli or
Multinomial Naive Bayes models.
However, those models are particularly
well suited to textual data,
where each feature corresponds to
an observation for a particular word.
And so you'll see Naive Bayes again,
including the Bernoulli and
Multinomial models in more depth in the
text mining part of this specialization.
This lecture will focus on
Gaussian Naive Bayes classifiers
which assume features that
are continuous or real-valued.
During training, the Gaussian Naive Bayes
Classifier estimates for each feature
the mean and standard deviation of
the feature value for each class.
For prediction, the classifier compares
the features of the example data point to
be predicted with the feature
statistics for each class and
selects the class that best
matches the data point.
More specifically, the Gaussian Naive
Bayes Classifier assumes that the data for
each class was generated by a simple
class specific Gaussian distribution.
Predicting the class of a new data
point corresponds mathematically to
estimating the probability that
each classes Gaussian distribution
was most likely to have
generated the data point.
Classifier then picks the class
that has the highest probability.
Without going into
the mathematics involved,
it can be shown that the decision
boundary between classes
in the two class
Gaussian Naive Bayes Classifier.
In general is a parabolic
curve between the classes.
And in the special case where the variance
of these feature is the same for
both classes.
The decision boundary will be linear.
Here's what that looks like, typically, on
a simple binary classification data set.
The gray ellipses given idea of the shape
of the Gaussian distribution for
each class,
as if we were looking down from above.
You can see the centers of
the Gaussian's correspond
to the mean value of each feature for
each class.
More specifically,
the gray ellipses show the contour
line of the Gaussian distribution for
each class, that corresponds to about
two standard deviations from the mean.
The line between the yellow and
gray background areas represents
the decision boundary.
And we can see that this
is indeed parabolic.
To use the Gaussian Naive Bayes
classifier in Python,
we just instantiate an instance
of the Gaussian NB class and call
the fit method on the training data just
as we would with any other classifier.
It's worth noting that the Naive Bayes
models are among a few classifiers in
scikit learn that support
a method called partial fit,
which can be used instead of fit to
train the classifier incrementally
in case you're working with a huge
data set that doesn't fit into memory.
More details on that are available in
the scikit learn documentation for
Naive Bayes.
For the Gaussian NB class there are no
special parameters to control the models
complexity.
Looking at one example in the notebook
from our synthetic two class dataset,
we can see that, in fact, the Gaussian
Naive Bayes classifier achieves quite good
performance on this simple
classification example.
When the classes are no longer as
easily separable as with this second,
more difficult binary example here.
Like linear models,
Naive Bayes does not perform as well.
On a real world example,
using the breast cancer data set,
the Gaussian Naive Bayes Classifier also
does quite well, being quite competitive
with other methods,
such as support vector classifiers.
Typically, Gaussian Naive Bayes is
used for high-dimensional data.
When each data instance has hundreds,
thousands or maybe even more features.
And likewise the Bernoulli and Nultinomial
flavors of Naive Bayes are used for
text classification where there are very
large number of distinct words is features
and where the future vectors
are sparse because any given document
uses only a small fraction
of the overall vocabulary.
There's more in depth
material on the Bernoulli and
Multinomial Naive Bayes Classifiers
in the text mining portion of
this specialization.
It can be shown that
Naive Bayes Classifiers are related
mathematically to linear models,
so many of the pros and
cons of linear models also
apply to Naive Bayes.
On the positive side Naive Bayes
classifiers are fast to train and use for
prediction and thus are well suitable to
high dimensional data including text.
And the applications involving very large
data sets where efficiency is critical and
computational costs rule out
other classification approaches.
On the negative side,
when the conditional independence
assumption about features doesn't hold.
In other words, for a given class, there's
significant covariance among features,
as is the case with many
real world datasets.
Other more sophisticated classification
methods that can account for
these dependencies are likely
to outperform Naive Bayes.
And on a side note,
when getting confidence or
probability estimates
associated with predictions,
Naive Bayes classifiers produce
unreliable estimates, typically.
Still, Naive Bayes Classifiers can
perform very competitively on some tasks,
and are also often very useful as
baseline models against which more
sophisticated models can be compared.